Witness and Request

witness and request events are kinda complicated, but they work and they
are actually reasonably powerful.  Here's the deal: let's say you and me
are sitting in our houses down the street from each other executing
NSPK.  You're Alice and I'm Bob.  You create for me some random nonce
called Na and send it to me in a letter.  When you do this, you raise a
little red flag that indicates what the random value for Na was, let's
say 17.  So at your house you fly a red flag that says "Marie's value
for Paul, which is called Na, is 17."  In AVISPA, we call these flags
witness facts.  So in NSPK, the fact
    witness(A,B,bob_alice_na,Na')
that Alice emits in the example on the web means "My name is A, and I
created the value Na' for the guy named B.  I created it for the purpose
called bob_alice_na."  The purpose is just a name and could be anything,
but it ensures that the intruder can't do any funny stuff like take a
value that you intended as your nonce Na, and inject it someplace else
where I want you to send me, for example, your public key.

Ok, so that's you.  Now over at my place I'm Bob.  I get a letter from
you.  It's got what is supposedly your nonce in it and your name,
encrypted for me.  Then at the end of the protocol, you have sent me
back my Nb and that's supposed to prove to me that it's really you,
right?  So what I do after I get that last message is I fly a little
blue flag at my house that indicates what I believe your value for Na
was.  So my flag says "I'm Paul, and the value for Na that I believe I
got from Marie, is 17."  This, in AVISPA, is done with a request flag.
In NSPK, in the Bob role we have
    request(B,A,bob_alice_na,Na)
and this says "I'm B, I believe I'm talking to A and she sent me the
value Na for the purpose bob_alice_na."

So far so good?  I hope so.

So where's the intruder?  The intruder is the mailman.  He's carrying
the letters between our two houses, and he can open 'em, read 'em, and
replace them with his own letters if he wants.  The only thing he can't
do is decrypt stuff when he doesn't have the key.  ALSO, he can't climb
on top of our houses and replace the flags.  So when you fly your red
flag and I fly my blue one, he can't screw around with those or take
them down.

Almost finished I promise.  So where's the AVISPA Tool?  The AVISPA Tool
is a guy across the street with binoculars.  His job is to look our for
flags and make sure they match in a particular way.  What way?  Well,
for authentication what he looks for is this: if he EVER sees a blue
flag go up (Bob's flag), then there MUST be a red flag someplace with
the same people, the same purpose, and the same value.  So if my flag
says I believe the value 17 came from you, your flag must say you
created the value 17 for me for the same purpose.  And if you have
replay protection (i.e. request and not wrequest), then those flags
better be unique.  If I fly two blue flags that look the same, there
better be two red flags on your house.  Otherwise it means the intruder,
the mailman, photocopied your letters and is delivering them to me again
(maybe even after you moved away!).

That's how witness and request events work.  The AVISPA Tool looks for
situations in which they see the first request flag above, and make sure
that when it comes there is a matching witness that looks like the one
above.  If not, it's an attack.

Who decides the goals?  That's one of the challenges of modelling
protocols.  Generally, we try to extract them from the description of
the protocol that's in an RFC or something.  They are sometimes
intuitively clear: if two people exchange a key for instance, it's
reasonable to assume that good goals include that the key should be
secret and they should agree upon its value, so it should be  
authenticated.
